[music]
Hi everyone, welcome to this week's episode of Nosy's Things of Fish, where we were
joined by the legend, Dan Shriver.
Another legend, Adju Hotsamari, but the biggest legend of all, Ben Elton.
Yeah, long-time listeners of the show will understand what a big deal this was for me in particular.
He's my big, big hero, and he didn't this point. You guys are going to absolutely love him.
The reason he was on the show is because he's just ridden his autobiography.
It's out now to Sunday Times bestseller this week. It's called "What Have I Done?"
And it's the full story, you know, as you do in an autobiography.
Childhood through to current day.
That's a typo, isn't it? It should be called "What I Have Done."
Is it too late to change?
I'll email you.
There is a phrase, "What have I done?"
That's what he's going for. I understand now.
That's right now.
One interesting thing about Ben when he was on the show is he went on so many amazing big
rambles, especially one a bit about his journey to having a new child, which was extremely
explicit, unbelievably funny. But you will not hear it if you listen to this episode because it
goes in the XL version. There was a little bit rude for this episode.
If you want to hear that, you're going to have to go to Club Fish.
That's right. You may have heard on last week's show. We have just gussied up Club Fish.
And if you want and free episodes and bonus content and all kinds of extra stuff,
you can go to patreon.com/nosuchthingasaffish and see what kind of extra stuff you
can get. And also see how you can support the show. That's right.
But for now, enjoy Fish and one of the greatest sitcom riders in British comedy history,
the guy behind the young ones, the black adder, upstart crow,
books like popcorn, maybe baby. And again, his latest book, "What Have I Done?" on with the show.
[Imitation]
Hello and welcome to another episode of "No Such Thing as a Fish" a weekly podcast coming
to you from the QI offices in Hobern. My name is Dan Schreiber. I am sitting here with Andrew
Hunter Murray, James Harkin, and Ben Elton. And once again, we have gathered around the microphones
with our four favorite facts from the last seven days. And in a particular order, here we go.
Starting with fact number one, and that is Ben. My fact for this week is the actor who played
Tinky Winky was removed from his role because his interpretation of the role was not acceptable.
I mean, how would they tell? I don't know. Well, yeah, this was Dave Thompson.
Yes, I mean, I'm bringing that out of my fact. It concerns a very dear friend of mine. But I think,
you know, my second oldest friend, not to go into abstract detail. My oldest friend is Gabby Glaster,
who played Bob in Black Adder and my second oldest friend played Tinky Winky. I really only befriended
people who would like to play pretty famous characters. Dave Thompson has a very, very great
stand-up comic, a very interesting comic muse in general. And he got a great break at one point
in his career in the E audition for Ann was cast as Tinky Winky because he did an enormous
amount of physical theatre in his day. He did a, he was originally, I did a lot of teaching. I'm
working with kids with special needs using theatre, etc. So very good with his tall, wonderful body.
He got the job as Tinky Winky and gave a lot of thought to it. I mean, it isn't actually a
simple as you think. Well, surely they just all kind of go around these enormous costumes.
I think the reason it was a success was because there was character. But for some reason,
they sacked him. And I don't, I think somebody was, because I think it was Dave's idea to give Tinky
Winky a handbag. And I think in those days, I don't know if that's a fact or not, but I think it
might be. I think that's about as far as you get with facts these days. It might be. And I think
there was some sort of weird idea that that might suggest you was gay and a weird idea that
that was a bad thing. It was a numerous things. The handbag was one, which I read in one interview,
Dave says it wasn't a handbag. It was like a magic bag. It could do magical things. So that's why Tinky
Winky had it. It was a handbag. It was a handbag. And Dave, come on. I think Dave's had decades to
talk about this now, right? So he's probably adding a little bit. Purple supposedly was a colour to
suggest this. This is all man. Yeah, it's all man. Fake controversy. It sounds really ice cold.
The way he got his, like, tubby vibe eyes. He was on his way to a rap party and he was just drawn
to one side and handed a letter from the company. You mean end of series rather than they were all
going to get down and something. But one of them was a Jamaican, through a lot of Jamaican dance moves.
I believe it's the guy who played Dipsy, through a lot of dancehall stuff in interpretation. Anyway,
no, but the rap end of series party and he just got told that's it. But he has said since then,
I'm proud of my work for them. I was always the one to test out the limitations of the costume. I
was the first to fall off my chair. I took all the risks. He's a big physical comedian fan as well,
right? Laurel and Hardy were his big influencers and so on. That's what he thought he was doing inside.
I don't, I have no idea what I said. I know he was, he has a say, he's a friend of mine and I know
he was deeply upset. He was devastated. I think since then, the notoriety, you know, he's,
it's in interest. I don't know whether you do better in a comedy career, playing Tinky Winky or
having been sacked from playing Tinky Winky. I can't believe maybe the latter. I don't know, but at the
time, because he actually did invest as he does in all his work, a great deal of his, you know,
artistry and, you know, he took it very seriously. I think he felt, you know, very undermined. What is his
voice like? Because I read he said that one of the reasons that he left might have been because
they didn't use his voice. They dubbed him over with another actor. He doesn't have a very strong
accent. Well, I don't think I'll kind of go. But he was, and he's, he's Darth Vader. Yeah, it's David
Prouse all over. It's one guy in the suit. Yeah. Some of them did their own voices, but the other three
did their own voices. That I didn't know. And he was the only one redone. I didn't really care until
now, but then his voice was done by a guy called Mark Heenahan, who his other big role was playing
Wyndham B. Johnson in a TV series called Fox. I literally, the man who's known really now
finally for hey, hey, LBJ, how many kids to kill today with a Vietnam war. It was actually the voice of
one of a children's favourite. There's a, there's a kind of irony stretching across the decades there.
There's got another one. I'm Ditsy, John Symmet. He was a comedian as well. So it's great knowing
that there were comedians inside. He's also a charmander on a Pikachu and friends cartoon. Yeah, they've
all got amazing credits. This is all after our time. Yeah, I mean, the TeleTab, is it? Are they still going?
Is that all? Yeah, I watched it this morning. Have you got kids or are you just... I have a three-year-old.
It was after she'd gone to the earth three then I put it up. Yeah, you just skinned up Adobe in it,
because apparently that's what was originally the big thing was students sort of like getting started.
When it started, I was a student and we used to get up at like 11 o'clock in the morning,
like students do and just put TeleTab, he's on and watch that. Yeah, every morning we used to do that.
Well, you know what they say, don't you? It was a number one single. We actually pastished that in
we will rock you, my Queen musical, because it's about the future of the world in which rock and
roll has been forgotten and all music is kind of electro. It's pop, you know, computerised pop
created and streamed directly from the sort of conglomerate, whatever. Anyway, one of the things
was that people are trying to remember back to the age of rock, but they really don't get it,
so they discover that, you know, this song was a number one. TeleTab is say, oh,
and they treat it with the same reverence as sort of satisfaction and I want to hold your hand.
Anyway, anyway, that's amazing. You know, it was created by a guy called Andrew Davenport,
and the whole, I didn't actually know that trippiness and spoken splits was associated with
TeleTab is because the one I associate that with, which is actually more LSD, is in the night
garden, which is the trippiest of shows. And it's got eagle piggle and same creatures. Same
creators as well as me. Lala in the reboot of TeleTab is the same actor plays up to Daisy.
Oh, my God, and so there is. There's the same universe. It's a sort of universe that was
TeleTab is rebooted. I mean, what was the? Yeah. The one that I watched this morning was very
different than the one I watched when I was a student. Right. Okay. And I mean, I don't want to
bore your listeners, but I mean, I'm quite interested. What difference, I mean, was the
hill a different color? No, the hill was the same. I think they just get into a few more scrapes
and also the plot. Yeah, there's how could there? I mean, literally tension pack. The
B.O. is different as well. The voiceover is different. Like, immediately I was like, this isn't
what I grew up on. Do the screens in their tummies? Are they now vertical for the age of
virtual video? Yeah, they're all tech talks. Yeah. It's funny how you don't like change. One
doesn't like change. I remember having, you know, watched an awful lot of dumbass the dang engine
goes round and round and round when my kids were very small. I happen to see one with, I don't know,
it's a nephew or something. And they've gone all CGI. So they're not real, they're not real
models anymore. And I just, I wanted to write to someone. I bid over the times. There also run by
Italian and French companies these days. Do you see what he did? A little bit of politics because
it's gracious. HS2 across Sodor is very, very slow. Can I tell you guys about Lala? Yeah. So Lala
was Nikki Smedley. She has since done a one woman show, Confessions of a Telly Tubby. And she found,
you couldn't say you were a Telly Tubby at the time. I think in the early days when she'd just been
cast and the first things were going out, they all signed NDAs. So you couldn't confess it.
But she had originally, her previous job as far as I can tell, was fronting the garage rock girl
group Psychopussy. And that doesn't get you sang for the sit. And all they did was fall off his chair.
Oh my goodness. That's amazing. That is a brilliant fact. That's amazing. But that doesn't seem to
matter in children's entertainment. There's the biggest children's entertainer. It's called Blippi.
And it's a huge character in America. It's sold, I think, for like a billion dollars in the states
as a brand. The guy who plays Blippi, that's not his first career. Similar sort of
alternative career to begin with. Yeah. He was a prankster. There's a video online that you can see
of Blippi taking a poo on his friend's chest. Just the people. That would make any child laugh.
I think that probably the best kids gaggy ever did. But the Barney character, he's now, he does
tantric sex massage. Yeah. He's so interesting. They've joined us. I read about, yeah, they've joined us.
So he wasn't the original Barney. He took over his Barney. And then, and he supposedly,
to get into the suit itself, he said, he used tantric. He used a lube.
What is a tantric sex massage? I think so. I think so. Is this where you thought today was
going when he came into the office? I don't know. I have to bring out my personal stories. But
I'll tell you what it is. It's they effectively put you in a headspace where you can start feeling your
your energy growing to the point of culminating in an orgasm. So you don't necessarily have to have
someone touching you. So it might be a verbal massage. Somebody's saying, you know, I mean, we all
got the entire world learnt the phrase tantric sex at exactly the same moment when sting and
trudy announced that they spent a year shacking or something without, without pause. And everybody kind
of heard this and everybody had a giggle about sting and trudy. And I don't think anybody ever really
asked, well, I said, what, I mean, what is tantric sex? I mean, is it, is it a different position?
Is it? No, it's a slow process. I think we're stinging trudy. It was them sitting across from each
other, staring at each other's eyes for about four hours and slowly getting it. Tantric is really
terrible boring. I mean, I think it's so much better when you shag. I mean, five minutes is fine. I mean,
anyway, I as a tantric sex is something mystery. I must look it up. So you're saying about people sort
of all learning things at the same time. Do you know toy story? Does this bit and toy story
where Andy, the child walks in and all the toys flop down? Yeah. Okay. So in, which toy stories?
Is this the first one? I believe it's in all of them that this happens. All right. I must have
met, I haven't seen any of them, but I have read the transcripts of all of them. That is true.
Sounds like tantric watching the two stories. It's just not as good. Yeah, they do. We'll never
trouble or an animal. Yeah. So in Disney theme parks, they had all these toy story characters. So
there's people in costumes. And then whenever anyone shouted "Andy's coming," all the actors
would just fall to the floor. Is it like a cool little... Safe to eat Thompson would be great
in when I was character. Amazing. It was like a little sort of hidden thing, but then it went viral
on the internet and suddenly everyone learned it at the same time. And so there was one day when every
single person who walked into the theme park just shouted "Andy's coming," and all the actors had
to the floor to the floor. And it lasted one more day and they just stopped doing the whole thing.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. That's so funny. So people can't be trusted with a global fact, you know?
They just kind of spoil it for everyone by overdoing it. I read this amazing story. I was reading about
people trapped inside big costumes trying to see if there was anything else. And I came across a
kind of different story about a kid, a 12-year-old called Martin's Pistorius. He had a mystery illness
where he fell into a coma for years and years, but he was conscious inside the coma. So he was completely
aware of what was going on. Yeah. And he kept trying as hard as he could to break out of it. Nothing
could happen. And he is now out of it. In fact, he's like a wheelchair racer. He's got kids. He's got
family. And the thing that broke him out is that when he was 12, they put him into a hospital and they
played non-stop reruns of Barney to him. And he got so annoyed with the song. I love you. That he went,
I can't, I can't be in this coma anymore. And he decided to train himself. And it took him years,
but through anger of Barney, he trained himself to know when it was daytime, to know how to move the
muscles of his lips when he was trying to smile at someone. And they slowly recognized it and they
helped him coach him out of it. I had to say one of, you know, I'm sure everyone shares it. I mean,
the terror, I think it's called locked-in syndrome. Yes. I remember reading about one person. Is it
something that butterflies or something? The story, a French bloke. And he, you know, he was there,
a sports game on. And the nurse just turned the tele off at night and, you know, he'd been watching it.
And in the anger, I'm afraid it didn't pop him out. But he also somehow managed to, because he's
obviously told that story since. But goodness gracious. I mean, the idea, and you can't even ask
them to kill you. You literally can't do anything. Yeah. Barney took a lot of flak. Barney took a lot
of flak. People hated Barney. I think this is that repetitive song and all of this. But the guy who
played Barney, as we say, David Joyner, he is a very interesting guy. Do you know what his previous
job was? Got him. He was a mannequin in shop windows. Oh, what's a live mannequin? A live mannequin.
He did it for a few dollars an hour. Right. And he claimed that after a year, he was so good at it that
he was charging a hundred dollars an hour. A hundred dollars. You can buy a mannequin. I would have
thought I know why would I. I just don't believe this story. He said he changed his clothes every
hour. You know, so you got a little fashion show. So as you walk to work, the mannequin is wearing
something and then he's you walk back. Is he just holding? Is he holding still the whole time?
I believe so. I mean, there's there's there's the Covent Garden is literally full of people with
this skill. They paint themselves silver and and stand there. I'm afraid you obviously do facts
at UI, but I don't think that's a fact. No, he claims it. Yeah, he claims it, right?
It's from him. Yeah. I think there was some political control. I mean, I don't know. It's an
American thing. I know I wouldn't even know what Barney looked like, but certainly not this irritating
song, but I think there was something to do. Did it go woke or something? Did it? Did it? Did it
always? I was always worried. Did it annoy the the people who like don't like things going
work? I think it's been canceled too long to have gone work. Barney's not have been around for a
long time. Not canceled. So it was canceled the whole time. In the original song. Yes, imagine that,
like we look back now. We say, oh, you know, what is shaming? I think they canceled play for the day.
Oh, what did they say? Did they say something mean about it?
Okay, it is time for fact number two, and that is Andy. My fact is that the British Army used
lances until 1927. Wow. I'm surprised it was that early that they got rid of it. Really? I mean,
if you think about it, we got what the nuclear bomb 20 years later. In 20 years before that,
we were just using big sticks. Yeah, but it's insane. I don't think they were using. What do you
think about it? In fact, after that, I mean, the poor Polish cavalry would slaughter in 1939,
because they also used lances, right? It took a long time for armies to get over, you know,
the old ways. Who knew that soldiers might be reactionary old dickheads or some of them at least.
Can I just say, Ben, that Andy is very, very excited to talk about lances. I'm so excited. I
could just see as you were talking, he was like, yeah, yeah, right? Well, I mean, let's, but as I say,
I don't think the British Army was certainly wasn't the last, because the polls, you know,
were you seeing which it alas is a very sharp poll, but they were very sharp. I'm listening. I mean,
we're actually talking about a military disaster and a human disaster, of course, but it is true to say,
I mean, I think the last British charge, since you've got me honest, I like history, was Churchill
was involved in. So we got lots of interesting links here. Was it 189, Omderman? Or so it was,
say cartoon? Yes, I think that was the last, well, it was one of the last. This is the thing. I can't
believe the man who wrote black adr is saying, well, this was actually a military, a human disaster.
I know, we've got to get some comedy out of there. Well, exactly. I mean, my grandfather got
annoyed with me because he thought we were laughing at the expense of the British Army and my,
my grandfather, my uncle, who was a historian, but also had served in the British Army in the second
world war, but was also saved by the British Army because my uncle and my father's family were Jewish
refugees from the Nazis. So they were, they were very conscious of what we owed to Britain and also what
we owed to the armed forces who, in 1944, just by what the Americans might like to tell you,
that they won the second world war on their own. There was a year during which Britain stood alone,
after which most of the BMR was involved with the Russian. But anyway, let's not get on to
get on to that whole of the second world war. We're going to stick on this quick. Go Andy.
Sorry, I didn't even finish about what my uncle thought and now you've moved on it. So you're like
mountain goats leaping from crag to crag. I can't possibly follow that. I want to hear what your
uncle thought, first of all? Well, very briefly, he wrote to me when black ad ad goes forth came out.
He was a little sort of guy. He had a slightly German accent in he wrote. Obviously, it wasn't a voicemail,
but I could hear his voice in the letter. He said, I'm very disappointed here that you're making
easy swipes at the army. Your father, who scoured you? That's the phrase he used for.
That's come to my study, boy. It's a totaletry, really, in it, because your father obviously
scoured you. But anyway, he said, owed his freedom as do I to the British army, etc. You did
very well with black ad ad to, but I don't approve. I wrote back and I said, this is just not the case.
I think it's a very respectful, but obviously the humour that Thomas themselves had, anyway,
watched a bit more of it and said, he said, what an old bastard. He said, I've watched it since and
I've decided perhaps I was too hasty with my criticism, but you shouldn't be so sensitive to it.
I thought, bloody hell, he's having it both ways, isn't he? Anyway, back to lances.
He must be the oldie person in history who thinks that the fourth black ad was the worst one.
Oh no, he, as I say, he didn't. He left a bit quick. He said jokes about idiotic officers and
things. It wasn't that, it's not that cut and dry, etc. Although actually, the bloody
mindiness that hags inability to think outside the box, Churchill again, in trying to develop the
tank, thinking outside the box, Gallipoli for all that it was a disaster, the idea to break the
deadlock in the Western Front. Look, I'm auditioning for the rest is history. I want everybody to know
that this podcast is just a leap for me to an even bigger podcast. And that's really the only reason I'm here.
So please, back to lances. Now, now, I'm afraid we've run out of time. I've got this.
Cavalry Lance. Okay, I'll tell you where I got this first of all. I went recently to the Royal
Armories in Leeds, which is a ginormous museum of arms and armor and armaments. It's absolutely
unbelievable. All the way from I think they're having a sort of Roman exhibition at the moment,
all the way to I would like to live there. It's so good. Oh my god. I'm going. It's incredible.
And basically, I met some of the curators there. I just want to give a shout out to Henry Yalop.
He is the keeper of edged weapons. What a title. It's so cool. I wish we'd had that when we were
very black at it. Every weapon has an edge. Well, that's true. Yeah. They got some blunt. Look, I
talk. There's a mathematician. Sorry. Lances. Lances. You have a round age. I mean, as a club,
got an age, as a circle got an edge. Back to lances. Thank you.
Basically, the point. So he told me this amazing thing that the British Army kept them in service
until 1927. And it was common among European armies as someone that's actually very amazing.
But anyway, carry on. All right. Yeah. I don't know if I'm having a go at your fight.
But basically, most European armies had it in service because this is the thing I love about it,
is I think it might be the ancient world weapon that lasted the longest into modern militaries.
As in, both and arrows were not used in any mass way. One of the other ones, swords were not
used in a mass way this late. Lances stayed in service. And it's basically because one of the most
effective things you can do is have a very long stick and poke it into someone else. I mean, the Romans
had a version of the lance called the Contos or the Iranian cavalry. Sorry. 20th century,
it lasted to. That was the first century to the 20th century. I read another couple of theories
as to why they lasted. Number one, that people in the army sort of fancised of these cavalry
charges. Absolutely. And then another thing is that they like pig sticking. So just it's like
a sport. That was like a boring race. That was really popular in the army. So people pet
them for that reason. But it wasn't basically just a really successful thing as well. And it kind
of we should say, a lance is just for anyone who not familiar with it, a lance is a spear that you
don't throw. You know, it's held mostly by heavy cavalry if you're trying to break up an enemy
formation or charge or sort of, it's a really disruptive weapon, you know. Imagine it in like a
joust in competition, you hold it. It was a successful weapon, but with the emergence of the
machine gun, it became instantly a not successful weapon and it took them very much too long a time
to notice. I mean, the fact that the military hierarchies worldwide were unable to sort of think
beyond the horse because it had been so, you know, 2003,000 years. I mean, I think it's more the
horse that they couldn't bear to get rid of because the idea of a cavalry charge remains such an
exciting thing if you're of a military turn of mind. And militaries were still hugely reliant on horses
for transport in general, you know, millions of horses in both one wars. Absolutely. But the lance
had this really good thing where it went out of fashion in about the 17th and 18th century,
when pistols came in. And then it came back. Yeah, what was the, I saw that that it went gone
around that time. What brought it back? It basically poled and hungry had amazingly effective
cavalry. Right. And guns were not very good at the time. You know, they weren't, you know,
they were slow to reload and they were, they were not very accurate over very long distances.
And, and it went so well for the Polish and Hungarian cavalry that Napoleon adopted it and then
the British army. So the whole of the 19th century was this huge renaissance for the lance.
I think it's more to do with colonialism. I think battles between Western armies, the lance may
have, they may have used it, but I don't, I mean, if you, if you've only got to read the charge of
the light brigade, I mean, lance is against cannon. Even before the invention of the Gatling gun,
what's that? The end of the 19th century. For me, the cavalry charges, you know, they were,
they were useful against an army that didn't have guns. It's against infantry. And there was a
loop. Waterloo was a hugely used, as in Napoleon's use. Again, yeah, no, you're right. I mean, as long
as you couldn't reload very quickly, although we famously know the British square with three ranks,
each reloading and firing in, in, in order. Anyway, back to the light. And the Anne Wunderin, like,
drones, like knocking a drone out with a big stick. Maybe they're going to come back.
I don't, don't tease me. In, in, it's sort of in, it's sort of around the crumb million times. Did
they have very, very long launches? I got this idea. There was a, a time when they got longer.
They did get longer when they, they became impractically long. Yeah. Well, you know, pikes, which are
the basically spears you stick in the ground to prevent enemy cavalry. Those are about five meters long.
I mean, they're really, really long. They almost wheeled that. No, no, no, no, that's to stick in the
ground and prevent a cavalry. But they, they almost had an exciting comeback of their own back in
World War II. Because Churchill, yeah, Churchill wrote things saying, every man must have a weapon of
some sort, be it only a mace or a pike. They took him at his word. They produced 250,000 of them
to give out to all the soldiers. Yeah. And someone said, we can't give them pikes. What are you doing?
They've got machine guns out there. Wow. I want to know the provenance of this fact. I've read
an awful lot of books on World War II. Okay. Never come across that one. Well, it was, it was
discussed by Godfrey Nicholson, the MP. We all know how much sense and how much truth.
Nicholson, though, he was a man of honor, wasn't he? It was known as Croft's Pike, because he was
sure. We sure were not thinking of Lawrence Gortwald Pike. I get all sounds, all my facts for British
psychology. It sounds to me like Nicholson was a very stupid boy. Can I tell you about Mrs.
Hertha Ayrton. I love her. She was a citizen scientist, and she was aware that there was a problem
with gas. First of all, war first, big use of poison gas on the Western front. So she invented
the anti-gas fan. And it's just a large fan. It's a handheld fan. It's one of those where you can't
snap it out and flirt with it. It's just like an open fan. Oh, sure. It wasn't an electric
fan. It was a panic. This was the first world war. It was just a handheld and they made 100,000 of
these and distributed them along the Western front. It's not a weird idea, though. Like soldiers with
their fans. Do we call it an invention? I mean, surely. She just, she came up with a good use
for something which already existed. I mean, she said, why don't we fan gas away? Nobody said,
"My goodness, what shall we use?" I'm a gas away. Ben, I like to acknowledge female inventors,
actually, and so can you. Well, I'm with you on that. You know, as we all know, Mrs. Allwell wrote
1984, apparently, according to a new biography. She wrote another thing called 1984, which she might
have based her slightly on. Well, it's just the title, I think. It was a poem. Anyway, let's not start
to bunking history debunkers. It's a very good thing to find the influences of women in history,
so we certainly don't want to be poop-pooping that. It's like a children's entertainer on a,
on a chest. On a chest. Just looping back.
Okay, it is time for fact number three, and that is my fact. My fact this week is that in 1962,
a baby was successfully conceived thanks to a new fertility drug that contained
Pope approved nuns urine. Yeah, this is, so this is the story of Perginol. Perginol is a drug that has
been used for decades and decades to help people who have got fertility problems. Back in the 1940s,
there was a guy called Pierre Donini. He was a scientist who was working on extracting and purifying
FSH and LH. So these are hormones that we produce in our body to stimulate production of sperm and
produce testosterone in men. They use for women to grow and function their ovaries to produce a
trigger ovulation. They're really important. He's the person who isolated them and tried to work out
what to do with them. So another guy comes along who is studying the exact same thing and finds out
about Donini's discovery and says we could change the whole system of people trying to get pregnant.
And this was Bruno Luninfeld. Yeah, exactly. Bruno Luninfeld. And so they approached this company,
Serrano, where Donini worked. They said, could we try this out? In order to try this out, we need
gallons and gallons of urine. And we need to find out where to get that from. And they said, it's a
great idea, but we don't want to put our stuff into this. We can't do this. There was a guy on the
board who happened to be the nephew of the current Pope. Okay. And he said, the Pope has approved that
the nuns that the Pope has access to will be the providers. Not that he has access.
Not direct. It's not a tantric besides sort of situation. No. He has access to
influence. He has influence. And he's approved the fact that if you ask them, they the Pope says he's
okay. Because his postman of paurs or large groups of older women, yeah. And they can't be
pregnant either. And they can't be pregnant. That would spoil it. Medieval nuns wouldn't have done.
No naughty nuns. In the modern. Well, that is very interesting. You say Pope approved,
because if that's kind of the big fact, it's like, you know, a Pope approved nuns urine,
where it's actually, I think, nuns urine is probably the more interesting part of that sentence,
but which because it really is that that way of what is sort of interesting way they arrived at
finding the stuff they needed. But I mean, did he have to approve it like we by we or
was it just a general? Did a purple bull that he said you can anyone can use nuns we it's fine by me.
I don't think he was project manager. No, I think he allowed it to just get on with it. Let's each
trickle. Okay. It took 10 nuns 10 days to produce enough urine for one treatment. It's 10 nuns
spend 10 days to get a gallon of urine. How long does it take five nuns for something?
GCSE Italian magic. 10 nuns 10 days to produce it. I mean, they weren't obviously spending all day.
They basically, when they had a weed, they kept it and it, you know, they needed that much of it. I know.
I think it's it's less dramatic when you unpack that sentence. It's coming for you. He's coming for
you. I saw it covered. So do worry. It's it's 100 nun days. It's 100 nun weeks. It's not a day. It's
going to be the day. You don't need to have one we a day. Well, you're right. No, you're right. You
probably five. Actually, you're absolutely right. Well, well done. I probably have these days. I'm
66. I have one we a minute. So you're right. I have to knot it just to get through lunch. You know.
But one part of this that you're missing out there is that the Vatican owned 25% of Serrano
this company. So that was the reason they were so interested in going for this. The Pope had a
dog in the game. It's a stunning. So the collection is insane. I mean, just because that was one
treatment was 10 nuns, 10 days worth of urine for 10 nuns. So, but that's one treatment. And then
the drug took off and it became successful. And they started off with 100 nuns all donating
there urine. And that gave them 30,000 litres a year. And so that was enough for 450 treatments,
right? And then that took off. But they had to fit special lose in the convents, obviously, because
you need to push it away. And so the first baby girl was born in 1962, thanks to this treatment.
There was specifically this one. And it took off and by the 1980s, they needed 30,000 litres
of urine a day. So they had to expand beyond nuns. Yeah, they had to synthesise it. Well, no,
that took them a while to synthesise it. So they looked for other groups of older and non-pregnant
men and girls of women. Where did they find them? They did prisons? They didn't do prisons. I don't
think. There were urine collectors working for this company who did door to door door locking campaigns
saying, "Wow, can we bring out your purse, basically?" And they had hundreds of that. They had
100,000 donors by the mid-90s. You would certainly. Because, of course, religion is kind of shrinking.
I mean, I bet there's a lot less nuns around now than there were 50 years ago. Yeah, that's true.
Peaked with the sound of music and I think it's down ever since. So, gosh, but they did eventually
learn how to, like, man-made, non-pissed person, but human. They weren't synthetic. Yeah, synthetic.
But it was 1995 when they came up with that. That's the name. It was called "Gonnell F."
"Gonnell F?" Yeah. And actually, per-gonnell is similar word and they both come from the word
"Fagot ass." "Gonnell F." I did two. Yes, well, I did two with my wife and I. We had our
infertility journey and we did three cycles before we wonderfully got our beautiful twins.
And no one ever mentioned nuns-pissed synthetic or real. There was literature. I don't know whether
they were trying to slip it past us. Maybe they thought, "I'm sort of relatively publicly known as
an atheist. Maybe they would have thought I wouldn't have wanted nuns-piss involved." Would you
with my- Would you have mined it? No, I wouldn't have mined it, actually. Of course, I wouldn't. We
were what's called "non-specifically infertile," which is medical jargon for. We do not have a clue.
And I think a lot of people are. And you know, everything seemed fine. They couldn't find a reason.
And yet, they say, in terms of facts, they do save if you're a couple trying to conceive.
In the first year, 9 out of 10, we'll conceive. And by the second year, 9 out of 10 of the 10 who
10% who didn't will have conceived. So by the time you get your third year, you really are either
infertile or fantastically unlucky. And we never found out. And it turned out we were infertile,
because our third and last child came as a very big surprise. Not born off the wrist, but in the
conventional sense. Sired. Sired. You're absolutely right. There's a really cool fact, which is,
so you wrote this into a book, "Inconceivable," which I absolutely love. And then made that into a
movie called "Maybe Baby." In "Maybe Baby," Hugh Laurie, who's a lead role, is a TV maker. And he's
in charge of this children's program. And it's at the BBC. And there's a lead character who's
a children's entertainer who wears a costume, who's called "Mr. Furblob" in it. Guess he was inside that.
Thompson is in my movie, "Maybe Baby." He's a very funny, physical comedian and a very good comic.
Yeah, I got a lot of good material out of that, because that's what I do. I like to create
comedy from what I know and what I feel and what I think. And obviously that was a massive part
of our lives. And we, over the years, read many lovely letters saying, you know, it was all very grim
in our house and your book or your movie was helpful, because it is funny. People are funny. And the
nuns we story is enough to prove that a thousandfold. Yeah, I always thought, because, you know, in the
movie, the two people are constantly. I'm ovulating, "Come home now." There's always like a rush,
and I always thought, "Oh, that's just a good comic conceit. Cut to us on tour in Europe,
where I'm finding myself on my day off, flying back to the UK." Yeah, because my life is obvious. Exactly.
It is a part of it. You know, there are certain times when you're more fertile in you. And honestly,
it's not easy. You need a bit of tantric to get you going, because, you know, like,
to order, I mean, I'm sure there are some, but, you know, you suddenly, "Oh, no." Anyway,
this, we did it long before any Viagra. So, you know, anyway, we're going into tea by territory.
By the Vatican, for instance. Yes, yes, of course. So, the Vatican owned 25% of this company,
and I was looking into the Vatican's finances, because I'm a former accountant. And
in World War II, they had a bank called the, and it's actually helping bank. Effectively, yes. It was
the Institute for Religious Works, and they brought it in as like a national bank, which wouldn't
have to be overseen by any authority. And they were known as the world's best offshore bank.
And indeed, they are alleged to have hidden billions of pounds from Nazi sources. They were
investigated by the Bank of Italy in 2010, and found that they were non-compliant in seven of the
16 core standards of the Italian banking industry. But is that related to the Second World War?
That's how it began. It began, actually, it began pre-Second World War, so.
But the investigation. No, the investigation is current. Oh, wow, okay. I say current is 2010,
so it's 50 years ago. Are they going to have to give some of the weebec?
We've all not made a taking the piss track there, and I think that's very good of us.
The other thing they have in Rome is they have a tax break for any chapel. So if they own a chapel
in Rome, they don't have to pay tax on it. And a chapel counts as any building that has a three meter
square place where you can pray. And so they own all these buildings in Rome, and they just put a tiny
little corner and put a little statue of the Virgin Mary or something, call it a chapel if they
don't have to pay tax on it. It's all according to a book called God's Bankers by Gerald Posner.
Well, it doesn't surprise us that money in religion can produce corruption. There's no doubt about that.
But the Pope in question on this one was Pius. Pius XII. So he's a friend of the podcast. Yeah,
we mentioned him a couple of weeks ago. A couple of weeks ago. So he had this doctor, this really
strange doctor called Paul Nehance, who was a Swiss surgeon, and he'd offered this rejuvenation
treatment. So we're kind of in the realm of that already with the fertility and the essence
and all of this stuff. But Nehance injected the buttocks of his famous patients, like supposedly
King George VI, with the cells of fetal lambs and calves, and it was a kind of jujup, butcute uphage
treatment. And this is the Pope, who's embalming, went disastrously wrong. And he ended up being,
you know, his other, he was very unlucky with his doctors. The other doctor embalmed him supposedly
in the traditional Aramaic style, and it went awfully, awfully wrong. And the other reason he's a
friend of the podcast is he was the one who ruled in 1954 that anyone mentioning Jesus'
Foskin will be automatically excommunicated, which is why I've been technically excommunicated.
Jesus was, was Jewish. So is this some read that I mean, is he thought of had one or not?
Well, he was thought to have had it removed as a child, and they're absolutely, and there are relics
around the world of this supposed Holy Foskin. Just get back this embalming. I didn't know about
Pope embalming. Do they keep all the popes? Yeah, yeah. There's been thousand, I mean, well, I know about
thousand, but an awful lot of post. Where are they then? Is that backed up? They're on a hard drive.
Is there a big on camera? There is a big on camera. If you go to the Vatican, there's like the
catacombs underneath and they have loads of, they're not all on display, I have to say, so I don't know
if they're all still there, but definitely you can what past loads of popes. How many popes do you think
they've been? Oh, that's a good question. Can't be triple figures. What? You mean more than a hundred?
Yeah, I think so. I mean, they've been post for two thousand years. For the A.D.? Yeah, and I think
they've, yeah, let's have a, let's have a guy, let's have a guy. Okay, let's do a long time.
Let's say Peter, right? Yes. I mean, I think there's pious, if there's about a hundred piousies,
I mean, there's certainly a lot of X's and ones. He was pious the 12th. Yeah, I'm saying double figures.
I'm saying, I'm saying, I'm saying, I've got the answer. I've got one, two, three. This is according to
the pontifical yearbook, so that's a call yearbook. No, three hundred and sixty-five.
There's two hundred and sixty-six. All right. So, according to this, there's two. You've seen
they've got them all. I mean, they cut, obviously, I haven't got the really early ones. I mean, when
how many popes can barmed popes? Are they? How many popes are still in physical? We don't, we don't
fully know, apparently. There's lots of bits of popes that we have. We've got lots of hard skins and
lots of poor skins. Don't mention them. Don't bring out the horse. Okay, it's time for a final
fact of the show, and that is James. Okay. Ben, you've had a go at the other fact so far, but I think
you'll be fine with this one. My fact this week is that Shakespeare's parents and his children
were probably illiterate. Well, that's not a fact, is it? He strikes again.
It's really out of three. It's one yet. Right out the gates.
The word probably does a lot of work. It's a lot of damage. I mean, the fact that someone was
probably something is about as far from being a fact as you can get. Okay, let me give you a
prompt level fact. So, let me give you a little bit of evidence, but it is scant because what we
know about them is very little, but Shakespeare's father and mother couldn't sign their names. Like,
when they signed, they signed with images. So, his father chose to sign their names. That's absolutely
and actually now, if you want to sign something now with an image rather than your name, you are
allowed to do that by law. So, you are allowed, and actually in those days, it was relatively common.
So, crafts people, trades people, guild members would often like draw things. So, John, his father,
drew a picture of a pair of Glover's compasses instead of his name. And so, some people point
this as evidence that he couldn't write. And William Shakespeare had three kids, I think, but
one of them, Hamlet, his son died very young. But then he had two daughters. And in those days,
girls would typically not be taught how to read and write, or not how to write anyway.
And we have one sort of very quite scruffy signature of one of his daughters. So, it seems like she could
write her name, but this implication is maybe not much else. But again, like, the evidence is really,
really scary. It's really, so there's actually, we know more about Shakespeare than we do about any
of the other great English poets of the English Reformation considerably more.
There are a lot of known facts, which is why it's particularly galling that idiot conspiracy
theorist used to say, well, maybe it wasn't him, because they think of, oh, don't look at it as
notes though. But let's just look at the issue, rather than the Shakespeare conspiracies. Firstly,
Shakespeare's own signatures are generally varied. He spelled his name differently. The whole
idea of what a signature was and what it meant. And indeed, what correct spelling was, was viewed
very differently in those days. Think about the evidence. Mary was a daughter of the aristocracy.
Her mother. Absolutely. Now, her husband, there's no doubt about it. John Shakespeare came up.
He was lower class to her. But he eventually was in court for cooking books for various bits of
dodgy accounting and things. So clearly, he certainly was mathematically literate. There's no doubt
about that. He became mayor of Stratford on Aven. It seems unlikely that he wasn't able to read.
Don't forget reading and writing was separate in those days. I think that's another thing,
isn't it? In those days, a lot of people could read but couldn't write. Yeah. Susanna Shakespeare,
the elder daughter, was married to a very learning apothecary. She unquestionably worked within
in his business. She was a very considerable herbalist and a gardener. It just seems unlikely
that human curiosity, particularly if your father is the greatest dramatist of the age, they didn't
realize he would become the greatest dramatist in English letters. It seems unlikely to me that they
wouldn't have taught themselves to read, been taught to read. I know women were treated entirely
differently. I personally think it more likely that they could read and probably write to a certain
extent. It seems unlikely that little Hamlet, 11 years old running home from school, his twin sister,
didn't take some interest in what he'd learnt. I think they could read. But neither is a fact. This is
a kid called Hamlet. Hamlet. But this is all irrelevant anyway because it was all Franz's bacon, so it doesn't... Exactly.
Or some other Portuguese name Shakespeare did not. Do you want to know what is a fact? Gone. Because of
course, it's a popular conspiracy, particularly amongst lovers and posh boys, that Shakespeare didn't
write Shakespeare. My father had a good joke on that. He said, of course, Shakespeare didn't write his
plays. It was another fellow with the same name because obviously, in a way, does it really matter. But of
course, it is evidence of a corrosive snobbery in British culture because, of course, Shakespeare was
famously the only poet of the English Renaissance who didn't go to either Oxford or Cambridge. I mean,
the grip of those institutions had on British arts, as indeed politics and sciences, was as strong
then as it is now. So I think it's a very unfortunate thing to say. Well, he was educated. He was
chucked out of school when he was 13. Would he really... Well, you know, McCartney was a working class
lad, as with George Harrison, you know, Len and slightly lesser. The idea that you, if you come from
Ruff and Ready Roots, I mean, you can't have the finest brain in the country is, I think... I've got to
say, Ben, coming from Bolton myself, I do agree with that. But anyway, just to get into my fact,
because I'm waffling on and I can see you all want to get your face. No one questioned Shakespeare's
provenance, his reality, the reality of Shakespeare. Starting with Ben Johnson, who wrote his obituary
as his friends, the Hemmings, who put together the first folio, nobody mentioned. There is no recorded
mention of doubts about Shakespeare until the middle of the 19th century. So 300 years past before
anybody decided, well, nearly interesting, if I could start this, to me, they're just like Moon landing
an eyelist, which is one step from Q and on. I think conspiracy theories are anti-science, anti-facts,
and Shakespeare definitely wrote Shakespeare. I find it so interesting how this arose more than
200 years later. 300. So, Delia Bacon was one of the... Ah, the name, the clue. I think no relation.
The American woman. She was the first person to raise the possibility. She was clearly very
intelligent in a lot of ways, but I think she was also quite unstable in other ways, and she traveled
to England to do research on the fact that Francis Bacon, who was a scientist, and very
learned guy, and very gifted in lots of ways, probably quite busy, though. Probably too busy to write
37 plays, as well, anyway. And so lacking in any ego is all of the boys from Cambridge
are that he didn't want any credit for them. How strange it was. Or did any of that cash?
And he allowed this bloke from Stratford to buy a lot of houses on the proceeds. But I think she
traveled to England, and she didn't really... She mostly stayed in her room when she was here, though,
just sort of... And... Regained room, which she absorbed the atmospheres of the country,
and then she wrote this 700-page book arguing in the case. Anyway, I think it was Bill Bryson,
who wrote a lovely short biography, Bill Bryson, finding various anti-stratfordians,
who've included Jay Thomas-Luney, Sherwood E. Sillyman, and George Batty. And faux of the podcast,
Mark Twain. Oh, is it? Yeah. Mark Twain, he said. So far as anybody actually knows and can prove,
Shakespeare never wrote a play in his life. All the rest of his history is built up course upon
course of guesses, inferences, theories, conjectures, classic Twain, classic Twain, I'm afraid.
That's all. I find it genuinely mad that otherwise intelligent people continue to love... And of
course, it's because people love a conspiracy theory. But sadly, conspiracy theories are the
enemy of the Enlightenment. We're already moving into a post-truth age, where we're going back to
an age of faith and superstition and anti-imperial evidence. And I think it's really dangerous.
And it might seem harmless for a bunch of old love is to assemble every now and then in gay,
say, "Well, I think it was the Duke of Buckingham." But I actually think it's the thin end of an
anti-science, anti-evidence wedge, which leads to, you know, vaccination, conspiracy theories,
and a whole world of where the president could say we like to choose alternative facts.
Well, you might like this then, Ben. Have you read the Shakespeare play that he wrote in the year 1853?
That he collaborated with another famous writer, which is Victor Hugo. Once he was exiled from
France to Jersey. He lived in Jersey for a while. Someone came around to the house and showed him
table-tapping about the spirit world. He became obsessed with it. He spent a couple of years talking
to amongst others, Lord Byron Jesus Christ, Joan of Arc, Mozart, Plato, two years. And Mozart
was using the table to make original compositions that they wrote down. And one of the things that happened
in those two years is that Victor Hugo and his son sat and channeled through Shakespeare a
brand new Shakespeare play. They got the first act of a new comedy. It's in French because Shakespeare said,
Shakespeare said to them, "That is the superior language." And so that's out there. I don't think
it's ever been performed. There's a one of them. Isn't that sad? Because obviously he was a great,
you know, wrote those. Isn't it sad when you discover the feat of clay that everyone has considered?
You know, I'm apparently Newton, dabbled in Alchemy. You weren't more likely to be the physics.
Yeah. He was very into it. But from the off, just quickly, you mentioned anti-facts theories
as a result of this thin end of the wedge. Riddle me this, Ben. The second man who ever got the
Pfizer jab in the UK against COVID was called Bill Shakespeare. No. That's a loop. You've brought
us all the way back. You've stitched together so much. That's the famous image of what's he called,
Matt Hancock, sort of pretending to cry, when someone told him that. There were a lot of unbelievably
good jokes as a result. Two gentlemen of Corona, came of the flu. Is this a jabber I see before me?
I mean, there was some very good things. Yeah, but one of the most amazing things is that
that Bill Shakespeare eventually died, not of COVID, of something else, not long after. And in
Argentina, when the news announced his death, they said we have lost one of the most important
pointers in the English language. To me, he is the master is what she said on TV. And she had to
come back on to the apologise and say, oh, no, no, that's not what I know. Well, linking vaccination back,
I bet that newsreader felt a bit of a prick. One really good fact is about Shakespeare,
because we talked about his daughters before is he had four grandchildren. Unfortunately, none of them
had children afterwards, so that's where the line died out. But one of his grandchildren was called
Shakespeare, as in the first name was Shakespeare. Oh, really? Isn't that cool? Yeah, it wasn't a surname,
no, surname was Quini or Quini. So, they wanted to pay tribute to the famous grandfather Hussiah
and wrote the canon of Shakespeare. But his lineage died out right with the grand autumn, except
there were few people who claim that it went on, including an American footballer who's called William
Shakespeare. Oh, yeah. Yeah, died in 1974, also known as the Merchant of Menace. Yeah, he was part
of the Notre Dame fighting Irish football team. And they claimed lineage, direct lineage from
Shakespeare, despite having no evidence. It was pointed out that he failed at English at college.
But there is a descent from, I think Shakespeare's father or grandfather. I think that these days there
is a baronette of, I think it's called Thomas, maybe Shakespeare. So the line, the Shakespeare family
do have direct, is that a claim that he's connected? Well, I think it's not a claim. I think he's
descended from dad or the grandfather. But there are, I mean, it is a surname. I mean, there are other
Shakespeare's. Well, we know from the bloke who got the second five of that thing. There are other
Shakespeare's and they're obviously always cursed with that name, you know, and like poor, we're
causing it letters from black adders who hate Richard and name forever. And the other thing about
Shakespeare the surname is we don't know what it means, but it might have been someone who uses a
lats. Oh, yes, honestly, there are some degrees of separation of drinking. We're literally, we're
huddling around these subjects. Wait a second. Stratford is Warwickshire, right? Yeah. Do you know what
else was filmed in Warwickshire? Telly tobes? Telly tobes. And, and, and isn't a needle? A very small
lump. I'm gonna wrap it up. We do actually do wrap up. Okay, that's it. That is all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening. If you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things
that we've said over the course of this podcast, we can all be found on our online accounts. I'm on
Instagram on @Streiberland. James. My Instagram is no such thing as James Harkin. Andy, I'm @AndrewHunterM.
I am not on any social media whatsoever, so you can't get me and say I ruined no such thing as fish.
But if you want to send you furious letters to us, you can get us a podcast at qi.com. Well,
forward them onto Ben or Andy will use them as part of our mailbag episode, which is called Drop Us
Align. If you want to get access to Drop Us Align, that's part of Club Fish. That's our secret
members club. So go to our website. No such thing as a fish.com. Check it out there. What's the book,
called? The book is called What Have I Done? And it's my autobiography, and it says it does exactly
what it says on the team. It's about what I've done. I've read it. I've read the whole thing. And it's
out now, right? The book is, I don't know when this podcast will be. Yeah, yeah. In that case, it is.
Otherwise, just come back next week. We'll be back with another episode. We'll see you then.
Good bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]